# Malicious-website-detection-using-machine-learning

Abstract: 

Machine learning and Feature Selection are playing a vital role in internet and cyber security sector. Malicious URL, a.k.a. malicious website, is a common and serious threat to cyber security. Malicious URLs host unsolicited content (spam, phishing, drive-by exploits, etc.) and lure unsuspecting users to become victims of scams (monetary loss, theft of private information, and malware installation), and cause losses of billions of dollars every year. It is imperative to detect and act on such threats in a timely manner. Traditionally, this detection is done mostly through the usage of blacklists. However, blacklists cannot be exhaustive, and lack the ability to detect newly generated malicious URLs. To improve the generality of malicious URL detectors, machine learning techniques have been explored with increasing attention in recent years. This article aims to provide a comprehensive survey and a structural understanding of Malicious URL Detection techniques using machine learning. We present the formal formulation of Malicious URL Detection as a machine learning task, and categorize and review the contributions of literature studies that addresses different dimensions of this problem (feature representation, algorithm design, etc.). Further, this article provides a timely and comprehensive survey for a range of different audiences, not only for machine learning researchers and engineers in academia, but also for professionals and practitioners in cyber security industry, to help them understand the state of the art and facilitate their own research and practical applications. We also discuss practical issues in system design, open research challenges, and point out some important directions for future research.

Introduction:

Malicious URLs are a dangerous threat to cyber security, these types of attacks can lead to scams, where people lose money, their information and accounts. It is important to be able to detect and act against these threats, the most conventional way is the use of blacklists, but this technique has many difficulties in acting against new URLs, so we are increasingly focused on machine learning algorithms, and that is precisely the focus of this paper. In this paper, we'll cover the most common and dangerous attacks through malicious URLs, how they work, and how to prevent them. We will focus on and analyze more concretely a technique to detect, which uses algorithms of Machine Learning. The goal of this project is to develop an appropriate machine learning tool which can predict types of URL whether the URL is good or bad. The algorithm that can be used here are Logistic Regression, Decision Tree and Random Forest.
